appendix.md, before:

---
title: My Perspective
permalink: /appendix/
---

# Intro
Perspectives are important. They are the basis for any action we take. They are, however, not unique. There are very few things, if any, that are instinctual. Most, if not all, we know comes from other people. If most of our thoughts are not novel, how have we progressed so far as a species? I think it’s actually for this exact reason. The more we can learn complex ideas and behaviors from others, the more time we have to spend contemplating the unsolved. This is the purpose of this writing. Not to explain some novel idea, but as a reference to come back to when my perspective needs refreshing. Allowing me time to spend focusing on personal betterment and refining my craft. 

I hope for this to be a growing catalog of interpretations/perspectives gained in my lifetime. This is intended to be the appendix to my life. Each topic is meant to be brief and easy to consume. No sugar coating or distracting stories, just on point explanations. It is also a living resource. I learn new things all the time, just like you. I hope whomever comes across this may find some useful perspective within that enriches their life. With that said, let’s jump in.

# Fairness

# Bias

# Belief

# Truth
Truth is a complicated topic. Some people dedicate much of their time to understand truth from fiction. While objective truths exist, it is hard (or maybe even impossible), to know what they are. I think there are two ways to deal with the problem of truth finding:
1. Declare truth based with sufficiently conclusive evidence
2. Otherwise, declare that truth can't actually be known and go about my day not worrying about it

Adhering only to #1 just leads to a preoccupation with evidence and truth. Which, in my opinion, is an unhealthy way to live. I would personally rather accomplish something with that time. The problem with #2 is that it leads to inaction. If nothing can be known, then what's the point of anything really? 

My preferred way of handling truth is to follow conclusive evidence if it exists. If it doesn't, then don't worry too much about it. Continue living life following after the things we are most certain of. No need to have a preoccupation declaring everything as fact vs fiction. If the evidence isn't sufficiently conclusive then move on. 

What is sufficiently conclusive though? Unfortunately that's where opinions rear their head. What one person thinks is acceptable evidence may be unacceptable to another. I think the decision of what is an acceptable threshold for evidence is an important one, though. Personally, my yard stick is whether or not another possiblity can exist or not. If one cannot exist, then, to me, this is truth. If it can exist, then it is merely a belief/opinion.


# Happiness

# Meaning/Purpose

# Good vs Bad

# Responsibility

# Expectations

Commit message:

add a section about meaning/purpose

appendix.md, after:

---
title: My Perspective
permalink: /appendix/
---
Perspectives are important. They are the basis for any action we take. They are, however, not unique. There are very few things, if any, that are instinctual. Most, if not all, we know comes from other people. If most of our thoughts are not novel, how have we progressed so far as a species? I think it’s actually for this exact reason. The more we can learn complex ideas and behaviors from others, the more time we have to spend contemplating the unsolved. This is the purpose of this writing. Not to explain some novel idea, but as a reference to come back to when my perspective needs refreshing. Allowing me time to spend focusing on personal betterment and refining my craft. 

I hope for this to be a growing catalog of interpretations/perspectives gained in my lifetime. As I learn more, I plan to update this document with new perspectives. This is intended to be the appendix to my life. Each topic is meant to be brief and easy to consume. No sugar coating or distracting stories, just on point explanations. I hope whomever comes across this may find some useful perspective within that enriches their life. With that said, let’s jump in.

# Fairness

# Bias

# Belief

# Truth
Truth is a complicated topic. Some people dedicate much of their time to understand truth from fiction. While objective truths exist, it is hard (or maybe even impossible), to know what they are. I think there are two ways to deal with the problem of truth finding:
1. Declare truth based with sufficiently conclusive evidence
2. Otherwise, declare that truth can't actually be known and go about my day not worrying about it

Adhering only to #1 just leads to a preoccupation with evidence and truth. Which, in my opinion, is an unhealthy way to live. I would personally rather accomplish something with that time. The problem with #2 is that it leads to inaction. If nothing can be known, then what's the point of anything really? 

My preferred way of handling truth is to follow conclusive evidence if it exists. If it doesn't, then don't worry too much about it. Continue living life following after the things we are most certain of. No need to have a preoccupation declaring everything as fact vs fiction. If the evidence isn't sufficiently conclusive then move on. 

What is sufficiently conclusive though? Unfortunately that's where opinions rear their head. What one person thinks is acceptable evidence may be unacceptable to another. I think the decision of what is an acceptable threshold for evidence is an important one, though. Personally, my yard stick is whether or not another possiblity can exist or not. If one cannot exist, then, to me, this is truth. If it can exist, then it is merely a belief/opinion.


# Happiness

# Meaning/Purpose
My opinion here comes on behalf of many hours of nature documentaries. I think nature is incredible. Here are a few patterns that I've observed:
1. Animals evolve to adapt best to their environment
2. When left alone, nature has a way of rebuilding destroyed habitats
3. Every animal has a instinctual desire to survive

It's my opinion that we should follow these same patterns. We each learn and grow through our lives. We have the ability to evaluate our actions and behavior. This gives us a fantastic opportunity to learn and try again. Never stop trying. We can reach profound heights by fighting weakness head on and improving each day. Act, review and act again. This is the key.

I also believe it is our responsibility to make a minimal impact on the planet. If it can be done sustainably, then do it. If it can't, then don't. It's really that simple in my mind. 

I think the desire to survive is one of the few instincts we are born with. We desire to avoid pain, even if pain is just a signal of the mind. This must be why we call life "The Search For Happiness". This is why it is my perspective that life is best lived when without causing pain to others. To some extent this is impossible - we can't make everyone happy. However, we can strive in our relationships and interactions with others to limit doing things of known harm. If we don't know what those things are, then talk about it with them. We are in this together for the long haul.

# Good vs Bad
Is there such thing as something being objectively good or objectively bad? Are good and bad opposites or is it more of a spectrum? 

# Responsibility

# Expectations

# Change
